#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support,Featured
How to install Rati

= Introduction =

The following details explain how to install the rati application.

= Prerequisites =

The following software components must be installed and setup in your environment. Basically, you need a LAMP or WAMP setup where the P is for PHP. 
  * Apache HTTP Web Server 2
  * MySQL Database 5.0
  * PHP 5.0
  * Graphviz

= Filesystem Setup =
Extract the contents of the packaged application to the desired directory. The 
root of the extract contains the root of the application, and so that will be
the main directory to view this application.

Lets assume you want to have Rati navigable in the following fashion:

  * http://localhost/rati

Where localhost is the machine name, and rati is the root directory of the package. 
Select the location of your installation, for example: /home/rati/rati-0.0-0/

Extract the package to this location:

  * `$ unzip rati-0.0-0.zip -d /home/rati/rati-0.0-0/`

= Apache HTTP Alias (If Needed) =
If you require an Apache HTTP alias to reach your installation directory, add the following 
to your Apache HTTP configuration file. This is likely httpd.conf.

{{{
Alias /rati/ "/home/rati/rati-0.0-0/" 
<Directory "/home/rati/rati-0.0-0/">
Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
AllowOverride all
Order allow,deny
Allow from all
</Directory>
}}}

Restart your Apache HTTP service for this to take affect.

= Database Setup =
In the root directory where you extracted the rati application, there is a *sql* directory. Within, is a SQL script to setup the entire database name `database_schema_myisam.sql`. The root account to the database will have to execute this script. Also, `database_user_accounts.sql` will setup the user accounts on the database for this application.

This script will setup the default table structures and user accounts. You can review this script for more details.
